Discover Upper Savinja valley, one of the most beautiful valleys of Europe
An idylic Alpine valley
6. June 2015 ob 06:17
Luče - MMC RTV SLO

Rich cultural heritage, beautiful nature, vast possibilities for relaxation, culinary delights, living tradition… it is no wonder the Upper Savinja valley is considered one of the most beautiful Alpine valleys of Europe.

The valley along the river basin of Savinja in the Solčavsko region, comprising the Kamnik-Savinja Alps, the Logarska valley, and a part of the Karavanke mountains, is situated only an hour and a half drive from Ljubljana. Parts of the valley are still authentic, the nature intact, and culinary specialties delicious.

Only a stone's throw from the Mozirje grove (Mozirski gaj), a genuine paradise of flowers and trees, there is a peasant mill (Brinečev kmečki mlin). Rich tradition, hard work, old customs and traditional way of life have preserved the mill to this day.

Now a more modern cylindrical mill is used for grinding, and mill products are for sale. As the peasant mill is situated next to the main road Mozirje-Logarska valley, besides a shop selling flour and a small bakery it offers also apartments and relaxation.

Treats along the way
There is no lack of delicious treats along the way through seven municipalities which extend on 508 square kilometres of the hilly landscape. Perhaps the best known is "zgornjesavinjski želodec" with PGI indication, i.e. dried meat in pig stomach made of the best pork and bacon. "Here everybody is advertising prosciutto. But it is much easier to make prosciutto than 'želodec'. We don't put enough effort into promotion," explained Boštjan Rihter, a producer of the 'zgornjesavijski želodec'.

Dr. Stanislav Renčelj agrees with Rihter. The meat expert believes the providers of catering and tourist services of the Zgornja Savinjska valley and producers of the 'zgornjesavinjski želodec' should join forces and jointly promote this product, which is basically the main gastronomic promotional product of the region.

Vesna Deržek Sovinec, TV Slovenija
Translated by G. K.
