Delo: Part-time workers will have to pay rent for using company computers
The rent for using work equipment will cost 30,50 euros
5. June 2015 ob 19:06
Ljubljana - MMC RTV SLO

The management of Delo has prepared an annex to the contracts with its part-time workers, according to which they will have to pay rent for using Delo's computers and other "work equipment" to the amount of 30,50 euros.

Last Wednesday, the day when newspaper publisher Delo was sold to the FMR financial firm, Delo's part-time workers received an annex to their contracts. The annex included an added Article 5a, according to which the newspaper publisher would rent its work equipment in the amount of 30,50 euros per month, VAT included. The rent would be "compensated" with the payout of the workers' monthly fees.

The head of Delo's newspaper syndicate, Mario Belovi훾, says the latest is probably an attempt to leave no possibilities for part-time contractors, which do the same job as regular employees, to sue their employers for employment.

"We are of the opinion that the latest is an attempt to reduce the legal risks of the company. Voluntary part-time workers would thus renounce themselves of certain elements featured in a regular employment relationship," says Belovi훾. He adds that many part-time workers do work which has all the elements of a regular employment. The case could lead to lawsuits and could also be investigated by the Labour Inspectorate. According to Belovi훾, Delo thinks it could legally protect itself from potential lawsuits if its part-time workers renounced the use of computers. "However, we think that even that would not be enough," adds Belovi훾.

Delo: It's about ensuring the sustainability of our business
Newspaper publisher Delo has confirmed the existence of the annex to MMC. It informs that it is "only one of the measures needed to ensure the sustainability of the company's business. Due to the continuously strained relations on the media market, the management has prepared different measures to alleviate the influence of the harsh market conditions and ensure the long-term business of the company in the frameworks of our business plan and long-term strategy."

Delo added that it was also gradually reducing the number of part-time workers.

G. C., B. V.; translated by K. J.
