A celebration of mountain living
Slovenia Revealed
10. June 2015 ob 06:20
Ljubljana - MMC RTV SLO

Nestled high in Slovenia’s Karavanke Range, Jezersko has long been a refuge for those seeking a respite from urban life. With its cool climate and an abundance of pastures, the area has always been well-suited to sheep farming, and through the centuries, sheep have played an integral role in shaping Jezersko’s mountain lifestyle. Today, an annual event known as the Sheep’s Ball celebrates that tradition -- and introduces visitors to the mountain area’s rich folk culture.

Each spring after a brief blessing, Jezersko’s sheep are driven to high-altitude mountain pastures, where they spend the summer accompanied by a team of shepherds. When the sheep return to the valley at the end of the summer season, the festivities get underway.

The Sheep’s Ball, held over an extended weekend, is a celebration of Jezersko’s local traditions. Visitors come far and wide to enjoy the event in which locals dress in folk costumes and welcome the sheep back home to the accompaniment of accordion music. Short plays organized throughout the festivities tell stories about the often-difficult lifestyle of the area’s shepherds.

During the Sheep’s Ball, some farms in Jezersko also organize demonstrations of various activities associated with sheep, from the shearing process to the knitting of socks. Other locals prepare simple dishes traditionally enjoyed by shepherds, such as buckwheat mush (“ajdovi žganci”) with pork cracklings.

The pride of place, however, belongs to the Jezersko-Solčava sheep, which is indigenous to the area and is perfectly suited to the harsh local climate. A mainstay of the area for centuries, the breed has become a beloved icon of the Sheep’s Ball.

Local sheep farming is not just about tradition and folklore, however. Locals own 300 sheep that spend their summers on Alpine pastures, and the flocks represent an important source of income for the entire village. The annual Sheep’s Ball therefore serves as a reminder of the continued importance of sheep farming in Jezersko. The event is now vying for attention with Bohinj’s more famous Cow Ball, and is giving thousands of visitors a chance to discover a still little-known part of Slovenia.
